# Clusters
Start a cluster with google cloud engine

```
gcloud container clusters create my-new-cluster
```

Launch instance of NGINX container!
```
kubectl run nginx --image=nginx:1.10.0
```
K8s has now created a deployment! K8s has created a pod called nginx-<id> this is now a k8s managed deployment. K8s will ensure that the pods stays up even if the physical machine goes down! ```kubectl get pods```

# Expose
lets expose this server!
```
kubectl expose deployment nginx --port 80 --type LoadBalancer
```
# Create a monolith application
lets have a look at the pods yaml for our monolith
```
cat pods/monolith.yaml
```
Now lets create this monolith applicaiton in a pods
```
kubectl create -f pods/monolith.yaml
```
and have a look at our pods now!
```
kubectl get pods
```
get more information about our pod
```
kubectl describe pods monolith
```

# Dealing with Ports
Private IP's in the cluster cannot be accessed externally, we need to port forward them!
```
kubectl port-forward monolith 10080:80
```
and as expected we can access our app now!
```
curl http://127.0.0.1:10080
```
While everything is up and running we can troubleshoot from inside the container! with an interactive shell
```
kubectl exec monolith --stdin --tty -c monolith /bin/sh
```

# Services!
We need a stable endpoint. And this is where services come in. Even if the pods that make up a service goes down. the services and its related endpoint persists!
```
kubectl create -f services/monolith.yaml
```
Allow traffic to the monolith service on the exposed nodeport. to hit the service from outside the node.
```
gcloud compute firewall-rules create allow-monolith-nodeport --allow=tcp:31000
```
Wait not yet. we have to create a secure group with labels.
Lets have a look at pod labels.

This will find the pods with labels: monolith
```
kubectl get pods -l "app=monolith"
```
Lets look at what labels are in the secure-monolith pod
```
kubectl describe pods secure-monolith | grep Label
```
Now lets add a label to the pod
```
kubectl label pods secure-monolith "secure=enabled"
```
Lets look at the endpoint that was created!
```
 kubectl describe services monolith | grep Endpoints
 ```
 Nows lets hit one of our IP addresses to see if the service is up
 ```
 gcloud compute instances list
 curl -k https://104.155.170.158 <EXTERNAL_IP>
 ```
